#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrartcl
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{listings}
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\usepackage{caption}
\usepackage{url}

  \usepackage{courier}
  \lstset{
  	basicstyle=\scriptsize\ttfamily, % Standardschrift
  	%numbers=left,               % Ort der Zeilennummern
  	numberstyle=\tiny,          % Stil der Zeilennummern
  	%stepnumber=2,               % Abstand zwischen den Zeilennummern
  	numbersep=5pt,              % Abstand der Nummern zum Text
  	tabsize=2,                  % Groesse von Tabs
  	extendedchars=true,         %
  	breaklines=true,            % Zeilen werden Umgebrochen
  	keywordstyle=\color{red},
  	frame=b,         
  	%        keywordstyle=[1]\textbf,    % Stil der Keywords
  	%        keywordstyle=[2]\textbf,    %
  	%        keywordstyle=[3]\textbf,    %
  	%        keywordstyle=[4]\textbf,   \sqrt{\sqrt{}} %
  	stringstyle=\color{blue}\ttfamily, % Farbe der String
  	showspaces=false,           % Leerzeichen anzeigen ?
  	showtabs=false,             % Tabs anzeigen ?
  	xleftmargin=17pt,
  	framexleftmargin=17pt,
  	framexrightmargin=5pt,
  	framexbottommargin=4pt,
  	%backgroundcolor=\color{lightgray},
  	showstringspaces=false      % Leerzeichen in Strings anzeigen ?        
  }
  \lstloadlanguages{% Check Dokumentation for further languages ...
  	%[Visual]Basic
  	%Pascal
  	%C
  	%C++
  	%XML
  	%HTML
  	Python
  }
  %\DeclareCaptionFont{blue}{\color{blue}} 
  
  %\captionsetup[lstlisting]{singlelinecheck=false, labelfont={blue}, textfont={blue}}
  \usepackage{caption}
  
\DeclareCaptionFont{white}{\color{white}}
\DeclareCaptionFormat{listing}{\colorbox{gray}{\parbox{\textwidth}{#1#2#3}}}
\captionsetup[lstlisting]{format=listing,labelfont=white,textfont=white}

\hypersetup{
colorlinks=true,
filecolor =magenta,
urlcolor=magenta,
linkcolor=black,
citecolor=black,
runcolor=magenta	
}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
tabs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package babel
\inputencoding latin9
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
pagenumbering{arabic}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Research Centre Jülich investigates key technologies for the 21st century.
 Different tools are needed for all kinds of experiments.
 Because these tools are often very specialized, the Research Centre often
 develops them itself.
 Apart from the experiment related software, there are many computational
 simulation and data problems that have to be solved.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Jülich Super Computing Centre (JSC) provides the resources for these
 computations.
 Such as the supercomputing capacity and capability needed for a fast calculatio
n.
 The JSC has several high performance clusters that can be used for compute-
 and/or data-intensive problems 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "jsc"

\end_inset

.
 Besides hardware the institute investigates, explores and develops different
 software solutions for parallel computing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The department 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Federated Systems and Data
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 (FSD) of the Jülich Super Computing Centre provides access to distributed
 systems that consist on a wide variety of different resources (e.g.
 HPC system, parallel filesystem environments, HTC resources, or clouds).
 This is done by implementing open standards and simplifying usage and administr
ation of these services.
 Furthermore the division provides in particular, middleware services, simple
 upload / download services, replication services, or data management know-how
 in general.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The research group on High Productivity Data Processing works on solutions
 to overcome problems and challenges of applications that specifically require
 big data analytics solutions.
 This can be splitted into three categories.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
begin{enumerate} 	
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
item{
\backslash
textbf{Investigate Generic Data Methods:}} How to overcome limitations of
 processing and analyzing large amounts of data ( e.g.
 in-memory databases, data privacy methods and query processing) 	
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
item{
\backslash
textbf{Machine Learning:}} Explore, develop and tune serial or parallel
 machine learning techniques, like classification and clustering, to enable
 solutions that work with large quantities of scientific data or high dimensiona
l datasets.
 	
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
item{
\backslash
textbf{Smart Data Analytics Applications:}} Find and develop solutions that
 are specifically applicable in real-world applications for general data
 analysis and statistical data analysis 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
end{enumerate}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
During the internship in this group the intention is to analyse, evaluate
 and build classification models for data sets that show problems when working
 with 'big data' .
 As one of the best out-of-the-box solutions preferred by application domain
 scientists, Support Vector Machines are the focused method, but other methods
 are considered as well.
 This report highlights selected different problems and their solutions
 based on several approaches and implementations by taking advantage of
 the scikit-learn module.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After the Introduction, this report will provide the necessary background
 in Section 2, while Section 3 highlights one application domain that represents
 the origin of the datasets analysed.
 In Section 4 the process of developing a classification model is described
 and in Section 5 the results are evaluated.
 Section 6 finishes the report with a summary and Conclusion.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
